chore(weave): Weave Self-managed installation documentation (#3547)
wandb/weave: docs/docs/guides/platform/weave-self-managed.md

# W&B Weave Self-managed

> This document will guide you to deploy all componentes to enable the Weave in a self-managed environmnent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document will guide you through deploying all components necessary to enable W&B Weave in a self-managed environment.
```

:::important
This is a tech-preview and not recommended to be in production.
The W&B team is working to deliver enterprise grade in the next weeks.
We recommend to use the [W&B Dedicated Cloud](https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/hosting-options/dedicated_cloud) deployment where the Weave is Generaly Available for production environments.

> :::

Reviewer: I would recommend omitting "The W&B team is working to deliver an enterprise-grade version in the coming weeks" completely in case this date slips. Suggesting turning this into a warning callout, because it seems like a super important info

```
:::warning
Self-managed Weave deployment is in preview and not recommended for production use.
The W&B team is working to deliver an enterprise-grade version in the coming weeks.
Instead, use the [W&B Dedicated Cloud](https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/hosting-options/dedicated_cloud) deployment, where Weave is generally available for production environments.
:::
```

> One of the main componentes to deploy the W&B Weave is the database used by the application, in our case the ClickHouseDB.
> Most of this document will describe how you can deploy the ClickHouseDB to support the W&B Weave.
> Although a fully functional ClickHouseDB installation is deployed, many measures to ensure a more reliable and available installation are not fully covered, which will be part of the final documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the main components required to deploy W&B Weave is the database used by the application, [ClickHouseDB](https://clickhouse.com/).
Most of this document will describe how to deploy ClickHouseDB to support W&B Weave.
Although a fully functional ClickHouseDB installation is described in the document, additional measures to ensure a more reliable and available installation are not fully detailed. These will be included in the production documentation.

```

## Requirements

> * **W&B Platform Installed(https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed/)**

Reviewer 2: I think we should point to the ref arch and not start adding sizing, etc. again.

> * **W&B Platform Installed(https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed/)**
> * **Bitnami's ClickHouse Helm chart**
> * **S3 Bucket:**
>   * A pre-configured S3 bucket for ClickHouse storage (see the **Providing S3 Credentials** section for configuring credentials)  
> * **Kubernetes Cluster Nodes with the following specs:** 
>   * CPU: 8  
>   * RAM: 64  
>   * Disk: 200GB+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- W&B Platform Installed. For more information, see the [Self-Managed Deployment Guide](https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed/)
- [Bitnami's ClickHouse Helm Chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/clickhouse)
- An S3 bucket pre-configured for ClickHouse storage. For configuration details, see [Provide S3 Credentials](#provide-s3-credentials).
- Kubernetes Cluster Nodes with the following specifications:
  - CPU: 8 cores  
  - RAM: 64 GB  
  - Disk: 200GB+
```

## Deploy ClickHouse

The ClickHouse deployment for this document will use the [Bitnami ClickHouse](https://bitnami.com/stack/clickhouse) package.
This Helm has a good support for the basic functionalities of ClickHouse, especially the usage of [ClickHouse Keeper](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/sre/keeper/clickhouse-keeper).

### Configure Helm repository

Add the Bitnami Helm repository:

`helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami` 

> Udate the repository

Reviewer 2: typo

> The ClickHouse deployment for this document will use the [Bitnami ClickHouse](https://bitnami.com/stack/clickhouse) package.
> This Helm has a good support for the basic functionalities of ClickHouse, especially the usage of [ClickHouse Keeper](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/sre/keeper/clickhouse-keeper).
> 
> ### Configure Helm repository
> 
> Add the Bitnami Helm repository:
> 
> `helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami` 
> 
> Udate the repository
> 
> `helm repo update`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ClickHouse deployment in this document uses the [Bitnami ClickHouse](https://bitnami.com/stack/clickhouse) package.
The Bitnami Helm chart provides good support for basic ClickHouse functionalities, particularly the use of [ClickHouse Keeper](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/sre/keeper/clickhouse-keeper).

### Configure Helm repository

1. Add the Bitnami Helm repository:

   `helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami` 

2. Update the repository:

    `helm repo update`
```

### Create Helm Configuration

> The following is an example `values.yaml` file with parameters that you can customize based on your needs.
> The critical part in this document is the ClickHouse configuation in `XML` format. 
> To facilitate the configuration we added comments in the relevante configuration parts in the following format `<!-- COMMENT -->`
> For this configuration, we recommend you modify the `clusterName`, `auth.username`, `auth.password` and some configurations for the S3 bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following `values.yaml` file shows an example Helm configuration with parameters you can customize based on your needs.
A critical part of this document is the ClickHouse configuration in `XML` format.
To simplify the configuration, we have added comments in relevant sections using the `<!-- COMMENT -->` format.
For this configuration, we recommend modifying the `clusterName`, `auth.username`, `auth.password`, and some configurations for the S3 bucket.
```

          <!-- MODIFY THE BUCKET NAME -->

          <!-- AVOID USE CREDENTIALS CHECK THE RECOMMENDATION -->
          <access_key_id>xxx</access_key_id>
          <secret_access_key>xxx</secret_access_key>
          <!-- AVOID USE CREDENTIALS CHECK THE RECOMMENDATION -->

         <metadata_path>/var/lib/clickhouse/disks/s3_disk/</metadata_path>
        </s3_disk>
        <s3_disk_cache>
  	      <type>cache</type>
          <disk>s3_disk</disk>
          <path>/var/lib/clickhouse/s3_disk_cache/cache/</path>
          <max_size>100Gi</max_size>
          <cache_on_write_operations>1</cache_on_write_operations>
          <enable_filesystem_cache_on_write_operations>1</enable_filesystem_cache_on_write_operations> 
        </s3_disk_cache>
      </disks>
      <policies>
        <s3_main>
          <volumes>
            <main>
              <disk>s3_disk_cache</disk>
            </main>
          </volumes>
        </s3_main>
      </policies>
    </storage_configuration>
    <merge_tree>
      <storage_policy>s3_main</storage_policy>
    </merge_tree>
  </clickhouse>

## @section Zookeeper subchart parameters
zookeeper:
  enabled: false
```

> #### **Note:** Providing S3 Credentials
> 
> You can specify credentials for accessing an S3 bucket in two ways:
> 
> 1. **Hardcoded in the Configuration**    
>    Directly include the credentials in the storage configuration:
> 
>    `<type>s3</type>`
> 
> `<endpoint>https://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/bucketname/foldername</endpoint>`  
> `<access_key_id>xxx</access_key_id>`  
> `<secret_access_key>xxx</secret_access_key>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Provide S3 Credentials

You can specify credentials for accessing an S3 bucket by either hardcoding the configuration, or having Clickhouse fetch the data from environment variables or an EC2 instance:

#### Hardcode the configuration   
   
Directly include the credentials in the storage configuration:

```plaintext
<type>s3</type>
<endpoint>https://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/bucketname/foldername</endpoint>
<access_key_id>xxx</access_key_id>
<secret_access_key>xxx</secret_access_key>
```
```

> 2. **Using Environment Variables or EC2 Metadata**  
>    Instead of hardcoding credentials, you can enable ClickHouse to fetch them dynamically from environment variables or Amazon EC2 instance metadata:
> 
>    `<use_environment_credentials>true</use_environment_credentials>`  
>    
>    More details at [ClickHouse: Separation of Storage and Compute](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/separation-storage-compute).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Fetch using Clickhouse 
Alternatively,  enable ClickHouse to fetch credentials dynamically from environment variables or Amazon EC2 instance metadata:

`<use_environment_credentials>true</use_environment_credentials>`  
   
For more information, see [ClickHouse: Separation of Storage and Compute](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/separation-storage-compute).
```

kind: WeightsAndBiases
metadata:
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: weightsandbiases
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: wandb
  name: wandb
  namespace: default
spec:
  values:
    global:
      license: eyJhbGnUzaHgyQjQyQWhEU3...ZieKQ2x5GGfw
      host: https://abc-wandb.sandbox-gcp.wandb.ml

      bucket:
        name: abc-wandb-moving-pipefish
        provider: gcs

      mysql:
        database: wandb_local
        host: 10.218.0.2
        name: wandb_local
        password: 8wtX6cJHizAZvYScjDzZcUarK4zZGjpV
        port: 3306
        user: wandb

      clickhouse:
        host: <release-name>-headless.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local
        port: 8123
        password: <password>
        user: <username>
        database: wandb_weave

      weave-trace:
        enabled: true
 
    ingress:
      annotations:
        ingress.gcp.kubernetes.io/pre-shared-cert: abc-wandb-cert-creative-puma
        kubernetes.io/ingress.class: gce
        kubernetes.io/ingress.global-static-ip-name: abc-wandb-operator-address

    weave-trace:
      install: true
```

With the CR ready, simply apply the new configuration

`kubectl apply -n <NAMESPACE> -f wandb.yaml`

:::tip

> Ensure the license has the Weave Trace enable

Reviewer 2: How to do that?

# W&B Weave Self-managed

This install guide outlines the process of deploying all the components necessary to enable W&B Weave in a self-managed environment.

:::important

> Note that, Weave on self-managed is currently in Private Preview (PrPr). 
> To deploy a fully production grade instance, please reach out to support@wandb.com
> W&B strongly recommends using the [W&B Dedicated Cloud](https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/hosting-options/dedicated_cloud) option where Weave is Generally Available for production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Weave on self-managed is currently in Private Preview (PrPr). 
To deploy a fully production grade instance, please email `support@wandb.com`.
W&B strongly recommends using the [W&B Dedicated Cloud](https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/hosting-options/dedicated_cloud) option where Weave is Generally Available for production environments.
```

:::

One of the key components required to deploy W&B Weave is the ClickHouseDB used by Weave application backend.

While the deployment results in a fully functional ClickHouseDB installation, there may be additional measures needed to improve reliability and availability in a fully production-ready environment.

## Requirements

> - W&B Platform Installed. For more information, see the [Self-Managed Deployment Guide](https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- W&B Platform installed. For more information, see the [Self-Managed Deployment Guide](https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed/)
```

- [Bitnami's ClickHouse Helm Chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/clickhouse)
- An S3 bucket pre-configured for ClickHouse storage. For configuration details, see [Provide S3 Credentials](#provide-s3-credentials).
- Kubernetes Cluster Nodes with the following specifications:
  - CPU: 8 cores  
  - RAM: 64 GB  
  - Disk: 200GB+
A more detailed reference architecture is available here (https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/self-managed/ref-arch/#models-and-weave)

## Deploy ClickHouse

The ClickHouse deployment in this document uses the [Bitnami ClickHouse](https://bitnami.com/stack/clickhouse) package.

The Bitnami Helm chart provides good support for basic ClickHouse functionalities, particularly the use of [ClickHouse Keeper](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/sre/keeper/clickhouse-keeper).

### Configure Helm repository

1. Add the Bitnami Helm repository:

   `helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami` 

2. Update the repository

   `helm repo update`

### Create Helm Configuration

> Below is an example values.yaml file with customizable parameters to suit your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example `values.yaml` file with customizable parameters to suit your needs.
```

The most critical part of this document is the ClickHouse configuration, which is provided in XML format.

> To make the configuration process easier, we have added comments in the relevant sections using the format <!-- COMMENT -->.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make the configuration process easier, we have added comments in the relevant sections using the format `<!-- COMMENT -->`.
```

> For this setup, we recommend modifying the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the following parameters:
```

> - clusterName
> - auth.username
> - auth.password
> - S3 bucket-related configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `clusterName`
- `auth.username`
- `auth.password`
- S3 bucket-related configurations
```

    </merge_tree>
  </clickhouse>

## @section Zookeeper subchart parameters
zookeeper:
  enabled: false
```
### Provide S3 Credentials

You can specify credentials for accessing an S3 bucket by either hardcoding the configuration, or having Clickhouse fetch the data from environment variables or an EC2 instance:

#### Hardcode the configuration   
   
Directly include the credentials in the storage configuration:

```plaintext
<type>s3</type>
<endpoint>https://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/bucketname/foldername</endpoint>
<access_key_id>xxx</access_key_id>
<secret_access_key>xxx</secret_access_key>

2. **Using Environment Variables or EC2 Metadata**  
   Instead of hardcoding credentials, you can enable ClickHouse to fetch them dynamically from environment variables or Amazon EC2 instance metadata:

   `<use_environment_credentials>true</use_environment_credentials>`  
   
   You can find more details on this at [ClickHouse: Separation of Storage and Compute](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/separation-storage-compute).

### Install ClickHouse

With the repositories set up and the `values.yaml` file prepared, the next step is to deploy ClickHouse.

> ```
> helm install --create-namespace --namespace <NAMESPACE> clickhouse bitnami/clickhouse -f values.yaml 
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```bash
helm install --create-namespace --namespace <NAMESPACE> clickhouse bitnami/clickhouse -f values.yaml 
```
```

    </merge_tree>
  </clickhouse>

## @section Zookeeper subchart parameters
zookeeper:
  enabled: false
```
### Provide S3 Credentials

You can specify credentials for accessing an S3 bucket by either hardcoding the configuration, or having Clickhouse fetch the data from environment variables or an EC2 instance:

#### Hardcode the configuration   
   
Directly include the credentials in the storage configuration:

```plaintext
<type>s3</type>
<endpoint>https://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/bucketname/foldername</endpoint>
<access_key_id>xxx</access_key_id>
<secret_access_key>xxx</secret_access_key>

2. **Using Environment Variables or EC2 Metadata**  
   Instead of hardcoding credentials, you can enable ClickHouse to fetch them dynamically from environment variables or Amazon EC2 instance metadata:

   `<use_environment_credentials>true</use_environment_credentials>`  
   
   You can find more details on this at [ClickHouse: Separation of Storage and Compute](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/separation-storage-compute).

### Install ClickHouse

With the repositories set up and the `values.yaml` file prepared, the next step is to deploy ClickHouse.

> ```
> helm install --create-namespace --namespace <NAMESPACE> clickhouse bitnami/clickhouse -f values.yaml 
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```bash
helm install --create-namespace --namespace <NAMESPACE> clickhouse bitnami/clickhouse -f values.yaml 
```

```
